Extend Documentation on JWT (#769)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/guides/how-to-retrieve-jwt.mdx

---
title: How to retrieve JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
sidebar_label: How to retrieve JWTs

> description: You'll learn how to retrieve a JWT in your application code as well as locally using tools like postman.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: You'll learn how to retrieve a JWT in your application code as well as locally using tools like Postman.
```

keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - JSON web token
  - JWT
---

## Overview

A JSON Web Token (JWT) is standardized object containing some structured information.

> A JWT contains three parts: - Header: Containing meta information like hashing algorithm and verification certificates - Payload: The actual data - Verify Signature: Signature of the Header and Payload for verification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A JWT contains three parts:
- Header: Containing meta information like hashing algorithm and verification certificates 
- Payload: The actual data 
- Verify Signature: Signature of the Header and Payload for verification
```

Given a JWT, you can use the information from the header and signature to check if the JWT is valid.

> Therefore, JWTs are used to exchange authorization and authentication information to applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, JWTs are used to exchange authorization and authentication information between applications.
```

Also SAP has chosen the JWT format to pass authentication related claims.

## JWT in SAP BTP

We will not go into details how to setup an application with the approuter and XSUAA service.

> Have a look a the sample applications for [SAP Cloud Foundry](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/cf-sample-application) and [k8s](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/k8s-sample-application).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have a look at the sample applications for [SAP Cloud Foundry](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/cf-sample-application) and [k8s](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/k8s-sample-application).
```

The SAP Cloud SDK has a convenience method to extract the JWT from the request object.
For [NestJS](https://nestjs.com/) the code would look like:

```ts
import { Controller, Get, Req } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Request } from 'express';
import { retrieveJwt } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/connectivity';

@Controller()
export class AppController {
  constructor() {}

  @Get('some-sample-endpoint')
  getSomeSampleEndpoint(@Req() request: Request): Promise<void> {
    const myJwt = retrieveJwt(request);
    //Do something with the JWT e.g. fetch some data using a destination
  }
}
```

Note that the SAP Cloud SDK uses the `Request` object from [express](https://expressjs.com/), which makes a usage in this popular framework also simple.
In case you use a different framework, the [implementation](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk-js/blob/6e3453e50a061d3ea2dbd9ac6a40232e624f348f/packages/connectivity/src/scp-cf/jwt.ts#L45-L63) in the `retrieveJwt()` is simple.
Effectively it takes `authorization` header value ("Bearer yourJwtTokenBase64Encoded") and extracts the token value:

```ts
const myToken = headers.authorization.split(' ')[1];
```

> Once you have the JWT at hand you can use it to get data [from other systems](../features/odata/execute-odata-request.mdx) or make calls to the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination#destination-service).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the JWT at hand, you can use it to get data [from other systems](../features/odata/execute-odata-request.mdx) or make calls to the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination#destination-service).
```

> Note that the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination.mdx#destination-service) will perform taken exchange flows for you if configured accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination.mdx#destination-service) will perform token exchange flows for you if configured accordingly.
```

This means the initial JWT is transformed to a `SAMLBearerAssertion` or `ClientCredentials` grant.

## Obtain JWT locally

For a faster feedback cycle it is sometimes convenient to test things locally without a deployment to the SAP BTP.
In some cases your application will rely on a JWT to set scopes or propagate a user to external systems.
In such a test scenario you need to fetch the JWT manually.

Postman supports the `OAuth 2.0` flow used by the IdP and XSUAA.

> Hence, it is simple to get a token via postman:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hence, it is simple to get a token via Postman:
```

- Create a new request
- Go to the `Authorization` tab of the request
- Select `Oauth 2.0` as a type
- Fill the following values in the user interface:
  - `Callback URL`: Path to the application protected by the XSUAA
  - `Auth URL`: Path to the authentication endpoint using your subdomain and the values for the callback URL e.g. `https://<subdomain>.authentication.sap.hana.ondemand.com/oauth/authorize?redirect_uri=<callbackUrl>`
  - `Token URL`: Path to the token endpoint using your subdomain e.g. `https://<subdomain>.authentication.sap.hana.ondemand.com/oauth/token`
  - `Client ID` and `Client secret` for the XSUAA service (either VCAP variables or service keys)
  - Do not check the `Authorize using browser checkbox`
- Press the `Get new access token` button to retrieve a token
- Postman will open a window showing the IdP login form
- Enter username and password
- Postman shows the retrieved token and you can copy it

Cookies will remember the entered username and password.

> This makes re-fetching a new tokens super quick when your old token is expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes re-fetching a new token super quick when your old token is expired.
```

Remove the cookies in case you want to start fresh.

![](../img/postman-oauth-token.png)

## Obtain JWT programmatically

> In some situations, it is not possible to use a UI based approach like postman or the browser to retrieve a JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some situations, it is not possible to use a UI based approach like Postman or the browser to retrieve a JWT.
```

If you want to retrieve a JWT programmatically you have to implement the `OAuth 2.0` flow or rely on a library to do that for you.
We have done this for our internal E2E tests and the implementation involves many steps and is a bit tricky.
We will give a high level overview.

> In case you also need an implementation investigate the steps in the debug console of your browser when you do a login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you also need an implementation, investigate the steps in the debug console of your browser when you do a login.
```

---
title: How to retrieve JSON Web Tokens (JWT)
sidebar_label: How to retrieve JWTs
description: You'll learn how to retrieve a JWT in your application code as well as locally using tools like Postman.
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - JSON web token
  - JWT
---

## Overview

A JSON Web Token (JWT) is standardized object containing some structured information.
A JWT contains three parts:
- Header: Containing meta information like hashing algorithm and verification certificates
- Payload: The actual data
- Verify Signature: Signature of the Header and Payload for verification

Given a JWT, you can use the information from the header and signature to check if the JWT is valid.
Therefore, JWTs are used to exchange authorization and authentication information between applications.

> Also SAP has chosen the JWT format to pass authentication related claims.

Reviewer 2: This sentence sounds a bit weird because it is starting with also. I think it does not bring relevant information, do you think it can be removed?
```suggestion
```

## JWT in SAP BTP

> We will not go into details how to setup an application with the approuter and XSUAA service.

Reviewer 2: I think there is some approuter setup documentation (https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/docs/js/guides/how-to-use-the-approuter). I wouldn't say what we do not do, but rather say what you want to say and tell the reader, where to go, if they want to know more about the approuter

> Have a look at the sample applications for [SAP Cloud Foundry](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/cf-sample-application) and [k8s](https://github.com/SAP-samples/cloud-sdk-js/tree/main/samples/k8s-sample-application).

Reviewer 2: Side remark "SAP Cloud Foundry" is not a name. Cloud Foundry is not an sap product and should not be prefixed with "SAP".

Author: marketing police 👮‍♀️

> The high level flow is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The flow is as follows:
```

> - User wants to access a protected resource and is not yet authenticated

Reviewer 2: I think this can be shortened.
Also, because this is not a real sentence it should be lower case.
```suggestion
- user requests a resource
```

Author: I would like to keep `is not yet autheticated`

> - Approuter redirects the request to the IdP

Reviewer 2: Was this abbreviation introduced (IdP) before?

> - Approuter redirects the request to the IdP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- approuter redirects the request to the IdP
```

> - After some [back and forth](## Obtain JWT programmatically) the XSUAA issues a JWT

Reviewer 2: Not sure that "back and forth" is a good expression. Is it even relevant how this happens for the overview?
```suggestion
- XSUAA service issues a JWT
```

> - Approuter adds the JWT to the request headers and redirects the request to initially requested resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- approuter adds JWT to the request headers and redirects the request to initially requested resource
```

:::caution Caution
A JWT has a limited lifetime but is nevertheless a sensitive security object.

> So do not log complete JWTs in the application, share them with others or use online tools to decode them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not log complete JWTs in the application, share them with others or use online tools to decode them.
```

:::

## Use JWT in Application

> After the approuter, IdP and XSUAA did their magic the JWT is a request header.

Reviewer 2: Technically, the JWT is not a header but added to the header. I am not sure if we should say "magic" here. ;)
```suggestion
After the JWT was issued, it is added to the request headers.
```

> The SAP Cloud SDK has a convenience method to extract the JWT from the request object.

Reviewer 2: Is it not a method. => https://www.codecademy.com/article/fwd-js-methods-functions
```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK has a convenience function to extract the JWT from the request object.
```

For [NestJS](https://nestjs.com/) the code would look like:

```ts
import { Controller, Get, Req } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Request } from 'express';
import { retrieveJwt } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/connectivity';

@Controller()
export class AppController {
  constructor() {}

  @Get('some-sample-endpoint')
  getSomeSampleEndpoint(@Req() request: Request): Promise<void> {
    const myJwt = retrieveJwt(request);
    //Do something with the JWT e.g. fetch some data using a destination
  }
}
```

> Note that the SAP Cloud SDK uses the `Request` object from [express](https://expressjs.com/), which makes a usage in this popular framework also simple.

Reviewer 2: Is this true???? I think we are using the plain Node `IncomingMessage`.
```suggestion
Note, that the SAP Cloud SDK uses the `Request` object from [express](https://expressjs.com/), which makes a usage in this popular framework also simple.
```

In case you use a different framework, the [implementation](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk-js/blob/6e3453e50a061d3ea2dbd9ac6a40232e624f348f/packages/connectivity/src/scp-cf/jwt.ts#L45-L63) in the `retrieveJwt()` is simple.

> Effectively it takes `authorization` header value ("Bearer yourJwtTokenBase64Encoded") and extracts the token value:

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nice to show the structure of this header in the beginning of this section (the part where you mention that the JWT is in the header).

```ts
const myToken = headers.authorization.split(' ')[1];
```

Once you have the JWT at hand, you can use it to get data [from other systems](../features/odata/execute-odata-request.mdx) or make calls to the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination#destination-service).
Note that the [destination service](../features/connectivity/destination.mdx#destination-service) will perform token exchange flows for you if configured accordingly.
This means the initial JWT is transformed to a `SAMLBearerAssertion` or `ClientCredentials` grant.

> ## Obtain JWT locally

Reviewer 2: As the next section is about obtaining tokens programmatically (which can also be locally), maybe call this:
```suggestion
## Obtain JWT with Postman
```

For a faster feedback cycle it is sometimes convenient to test things locally without a deployment to the SAP BTP.
In some cases your application will rely on a JWT to set scopes or propagate a user to external systems.
In such a test scenario you need to fetch the JWT manually.

Postman supports the `OAuth 2.0` flow used by the IdP and XSUAA.
Hence, it is simple to get a token via Postman:

- Create a new request
- Go to the `Authorization` tab of the request
- Select `Oauth 2.0` as a type
- Fill the following values in the user interface:
  - `Callback URL`: Path to the application protected by the XSUAA
  - `Auth URL`: Path to the authentication endpoint using your subdomain and the values for the callback URL e.g. `https://<subdomain>.authentication.sap.hana.ondemand.com/oauth/authorize?redirect_uri=<callbackUrl>`
  - `Token URL`: Path to the token endpoint using your subdomain e.g. `https://<subdomain>.authentication.sap.hana.ondemand.com/oauth/token`
  - `Client ID` and `Client secret` for the XSUAA service (either VCAP variables or service keys)

>   - Do not check the `Authorize using browser checkbox`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - uncheck the `Authorize using browser checkbox`
```

- Press the `Get new access token` button to retrieve a token
- Postman will open a window showing the IdP login form
- Enter username and password
- Postman shows the retrieved token and you can copy it

Cookies will remember the entered username and password.
This makes re-fetching a new token super quick when your old token is expired.
Remove the cookies in case you want to start fresh.

![](../img/postman-oauth-token.png)

## Obtain JWT programmatically

> In some situations, it is not possible to use a UI based approach like Postman or the browser to retrieve a JWT.
> If you want to retrieve a JWT programmatically you have to implement the `OAuth 2.0` flow or rely on a library to do that for you.
> We have done this for our internal E2E tests and the implementation involves many steps and is a bit tricky.
> We will give a high level overview.
> In case you also need an implementation, investigate the steps in the debug console of your browser when you do a login.

Reviewer 2: I would also prefer to shorten this quite a bit. I would just assume that a reader who looks at this section has a reason to obtain the JWT programmatically.

Maybe:
```suggestion
Retrieving a JWT programmatically involves many steps.
The following is a high level overview of those steps.
In case you need more details, investigate the steps in the debug console of your browser when you do a login.
In some situations, it is not possible to use a UI based approach like Postman or the browser to retrieve a JWT.
If you want to retrieve a JWT programmatically you have to implement the `OAuth 2.0` flow or rely on a library to do that for you.
We have done this for our internal E2E tests and the implementation involves many steps and is a bit tricky.
We will give a high level overview.
In case you also need an implementation, investigate the steps in the debug console of your browser when you do a login.
```

> - First step is to retrieve a `code` from the XSUAA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- retrieve a `code` from the XSUAA
```

- XSUAA issues a JWT - see [here](## Obtain JWT programmatically) for details
- approuter adds the JWT to the request headers and redirects the request to initially requested resource

:::caution Caution
A JWT has a limited lifetime but is nevertheless a sensitive security object.
Do not log complete JWTs in the application, share them with others or use online tools to decode them.
:::

## Use JWT in Application

After the JWT was issued, it is added to the request headers by the approuter:

```json
{
  "headers": {
    "authorization": "Bearer yourJwtTokenBase64Encoded"
  }
}
```

The SAP Cloud SDK has a convenience function to extract the JWT from the request object.
For [NestJS](https://nestjs.com/) the code would look like:

```ts
import { Controller, Get, Req } from '@nestjs/common';
import { Request } from 'express';
import { retrieveJwt } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/connectivity';

@Controller()
export class AppController {
  constructor() {}

  @Get('some-sample-endpoint')
  getSomeSampleEndpoint(@Req() request: Request): Promise<void> {
    const myJwt = retrieveJwt(request);
    //Do something with the JWT e.g. fetch some data using a destination
  }
}
```

> Note, that the SAP Cloud SDK uses the `Request` object from [express](https://expressjs.com/), which makes a usage in this popular framework also simple.

Reviewer 2: As discussed: it is based on `IncomingMessage`, which is compatible to `Request`. Not sure if the next sentence is necessary then ;)
